<!-- Generated by knitr: do not edit by hand. Please edit the content in README.Rmd -->

Optimization of Spatial Samples via Simulated Annealing
=======================================================

[![Project Status: Active – The project has reached a stable, usable
state and is being actively
developed.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#active)
[![packageversion](https://img.shields.io/badge/devel%20version-2.3.1-firebrick.svg?style=flat-square)](commits/master)
[![CRAN](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/spsann)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=spsann)
[![cran
checks](https://cranchecks.info/badges/worst/spsann)](https://cran.r-project.org/web/checks/check_results_spsann.html)
[![Downloads](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/spsann?color=brightgreen)](https://www.r-pkg.org/pkg/spsann)
[![Rdoc](https://api.rdocumentation.org/badges/version/spsann)](https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/spsann)

The **spsann** package was created to help you designing optimum spatial
sample configurations using the power of spatial simulated annealing in
[R](https://www.r-project.org/).

Installation
------------

The latest stable version of the **spsann** package generally can be
downloaded from the *Comprehensive R Archive Network*
([CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=febr)).

    # Install the spsann package from CRAN
    install.packages(pkgs = "spsann")

If the installation from CRAN fails, you can install the development
version of the **spsann** package available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/laboratorio-de-pedometria/spsann-package)
using the **remotes** package. If you are using a
[Windows](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/) machine, however, you
will have to install
[Rtools](https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/) first.

    # Install the spsann package from GitHub
    if (!require(remotes)) {
      install.packages(pkgs = "remotes")
    }
    remotes::install_github(repo = "laboratorio-de-pedometria/spsann-package")

How to collaborate
------------------

We use the *fork & pull* collaborative development model. This means
that you are free to make a parallel copy of this repository, change the
source code as you see fit, and then *push* the changes to your personal
copy of this repository. All this without requiring any authorization.
If the changes you’ve made to your personal copy of this repository are
interesting and you’re willing to share them with us, then just have
them pulled – *pull request* – to this repository. After reviewing the
changes, we will decide whether they can be merged – *merge* – with the
source code of this repository.
